install
tensorflow on your Windows computer I'm
using anaconda on my computer so I am
going to install tensorflow with in
anaconda environment the other way is
you have plain Python installation in
that case you can just run pip install
tensorflow and you will be all set so
since I have anaconda environment first
thing you need to do is install anaconda
for that I have a link video I made a
video on how to install an icon on
Windows so just follow that and I am
assuming you have now installed anaconda
the first thing you need to do is go to
add and remove program and make sure you
don't have to python installation
because anaconda comes with python
installation so here search for python
and if you see another python
installation here remove it otherwise it
will create a lot of issues you should
have just anaconda or just have plain
Python installation you should not have
both now I am going to launch git bash
so git bash is a command prompt which
you can again install on your computer
easily right click run as an
administrator it should be notebook
and this is launching a jupiter notebook
in my anaconda environment and you can
just create like a new Python 3 notebook
I already have something created here
and I will just try to import or
tensorflow in this notebook and see if
it works so ctrl enter and when you do
ctrl enter is trying to execute that and
you you see that it is not important
right now
so now what I will just say ctrl C and
exit out of that and I will now run pip
install tensor so this will just take
few seconds and then it will install
tensorflow so now it says successfully
install tensorflow to 10 suppor 2 is out
so we are you going to use that
and now again you can use Jupiter
Notebook command to launch the same
notebook and we'll try to import
tensorflow and see what happens
and let's see if this works this time or
not
control-enter great I am able to import
tensorflow now I'm all set to write my
first neural network program thank you.