we will be looking at theory behind a
single neuron neural network today and
we are going to use this particular data
set where you have persons age and
whether the person have insurance or not
using this you want to build a function
that can tell you or that can predict if
person will buy an insurance given an
age and this is not nothing but a binary
classification problem you are giving an
age and as an output you are getting 0
or 1 which is a binary output 0 means
person will not buy insurance person
might buy insurance now if you have
followed my machine learning tutorials
you might have some memories regarding
this data set you will be like yeah I
have already looked into this problem
and you are absolutely right if you look
at my logistic regression tutorial this
particular one I'm going to link this
playlist in a video description below so
check this particular video out it's a
prerequisite for this tutorial if you
don't want to bother about it I will
still go in the theory but if you go
through this video it's gonna be helpful
guys so please do that
so logistic regression is basically in
algorithm that can be used for
classification problem so let's go over
some theory I am going to plot this
particular data set on a scatter chart
like this it's a simple chart my friend
x-axis you have age y-axis you have 0
and 1 0 means person doesn't have
insurance
1 means person having shown us now again
going back to my machine learning
tutorial playlist using linear
regression you can draw a best fit line
and that goes through this data points
like this now you'll be like how did I
draw this line well there is this
concept of linear regression linear
regression if you don't know that
concept again go to my tutorial playlist
and follow these two tutorials tutorial
number two and three they talk about
linear regression so using that you
draw a best-fit line see if you want to
draw a single line that passes through
all these data points it's not possible
so you have to somehow come up with the
best fit line so this is that best fit
line and after you draw that best fit
line you can do something like this okay
so I have this line which is my
prediction function and unless I want to
predict if an 85 year old
dadima or grandmother want to buy any
insurance or not so here where is it if
I okay let's see on x-axis 85 is here so
if you look at this data point it is
more than one so anything more than 0.5
person will buy the insurance so you'll
be like yes person will buy the
insurance
so you anything which is 0.5 or up
person will buy the insurance less than
that person will not buy insurance so
then you get this red color boundary
almost so you can see on axis is around
42 years of age a person starts buying
insurance so linear regression by the
way for this given problem works
perfectly fine but there is one issue
let's say your data set has an outlier
like this let's say you have some very
aged people in your data set who have
had the insurance now you're best fit
line when you are using linear
regression will look something like this
and when you draw a boundary using 0.5
what happens is you end up
misclassifying certain data point see
all this data points now your line will
say they do not need to have insurance
because your age criteria has gone up
now it's like okay anyone who is 48 year
old or more that person buys the
insurance so you can see the problem
with linear regression here what if I
can draw a line like this this line is
much better because when now I draw my
boundary I will not be misclassifying
those data points of course there will
be some data points like this and these
two guys
there will be some outlier see machine
learning all we are doing is some coming
up with some best guess function it
might not be perfect and that's fine but
most of the data points this works okay
so this function is pretty useful it
looks like an S in alphabet this is
known as a sigmoid or logit function if
you have done some mathematics it is
it's just a name of the function french
do not worry too much about what is
Sigma and logit like whenever you hear
mathematical terms I know you guys freak
out but don't worry it's a very simple
function as safe function and the
function equation is like this 1 divided
by 1 plus e raised to minus Z is Euler's
number what is Euler's number it's just
some constant like you know how about pi
how pi is a constant number in the
universe same as Euler's number 2.71 why
is it 2.71
universe decided it to be that way why
do humans have two legs or why do humans
have two eyes it's just some constant
universe has constants friends Euler's
number is a constant all this function
is doing is converting an input value Z
into a range of 0 to 1 now look at this
function carefully let's say you use
this function for the value of 200 when
you put 200 in the value of Z see this
number becomes very very small so 1
divided by 1 plus very small which is 1
divided by a number which is little
greater than 1 you will get a value
almost close to 1 if you have a negative
number then this becomes really big and
the number goes to 0 so all that this
function is doing is take an input value
and convert it between a 0 to 1 so if
you have way like a bigger positive
values it will it will max them out to 1
it's like almost like a
so ok well Luis goes beyond some point
it will just max it out to one value
goes beyond certain point on a negative
direction it will mix it out to zero so
any value you fade into this function it
is a simple function which will convert
it to zero and one and why do we do that
why do we need a sigmoid function like
this so basically we had we have not two
steps so in the first step we are still
drawing a linear line using linear
regression ok so y is equal to MX plus B
where X is actually an age and B is some
bias so again go through my linear
regression tutorials you will get an
idea if you are still not sure about
this mathematics but the first step is
you draw a linear line using linear
regression and the line is y is equal to
MX plus B and the step two is applying a
sigmoid function so sigmoid function is
you know you have this line and you
apply sigmoid function and it becomes
like s so Sigma function is doing
nothing so it is taking the vibe from
step one which is the output of step one
and converting it into this nice curve
which is little better for our problem
of classification and if you look at X
it is an age Z is nothing but if person
will buy the insurance now when you're
working on a classification problem all
you want to know is zero and one zero
means person will not buy insurance one
will part one means person will buy the
insurance so you are interested only in
two outputs remember from my machine
learning tutorials when you have a
regression problem there is a continuous
output like housing price prediction
where you give bedrooms square feet
etcetera and you get a particular value
like $400,000 or $500,000 so there are
values in regression but in
classification like zero one spam or not
spam categories basically
and Sigma function is used exactly for
that purpose because it converts any
value to zero and one and what we can do
is now any value which is less than 0.5
we can say it's 0 anything greater than
0.5 it's 1 so it helps you with a
classification problem now when we look
at our equation when you solve this
equation using linear regression all you
are doing is you're coming up with M and
B so let's say in our case we came up
with this M M value is point zero forty
two B value is minus one point five
three now I did not randomly put these
numbers my friends these are the real
numbers for our insurance data set and
if you have good memory if you go to
Milan logistic regression tutorial which
again I'm going to link in the video
description below you see these two
constant so the coefficient which is M
is zero point zero four one five so you
can round it to point zero forty to
intercept is minus one point five two
seven
so again round it to 1.53 so these are
the numbers I am putting on my PPT I'm
not randomly putting any number okay
so now thinking about step one and step
two we get this so this is y that we
calculate using M and B and then the
next step is Z which is your sigmoid
function so now once we have this two
step function this is nothing but the
logistic regression okay so we are doing
logistic regression in this circle so
when you give let's say age 35 to this
function it will first calculate Y and
by the way you can put 35 in the value
of x and you can have calculator just
compute the value and you will get point
48 again I am NOT randomly putting these
numbers these are the accurate numbers
and then step two is sigmoid function so
now when you have point 48 it is less
than 0.5
which means person will not buy the
insurance hence the red color I use red
color with a purpose here and when you
have age 40 T 43 you get this value 0.57
which is more than 0.5 which means
person will buy the insurance yeah you
want to lottery so now this already
looks like neuron so this particular
thing in the round is nothing but a
neuron neuron has this linear equation
as a first part and an activation
function as a second part so activation
function is nothing but our sigmoid
function
what does activation mean you know you
have those LED lights at home so when
LED light activates it is on when
deactivates it is off which means 0 1 0
1 0 1 so sigmoid function is exactly
doing that you give any value it
converts it to a value between 0 and 1
which means you can classify okay so
this round here is nothing but a neuron
so logistic regression you can think of
it as is simple like a single neuron
okay now we used only one feature so in
the machine learning terminology the age
is called a feature or an input
parameter or an independent variable the
dependent variable is if person will buy
insurance or not now you can have
multiple factors actually you can have
instead of age you can have age income
and education so you can have something
like this where in this particular
equation let's say if I have income and
education because sometimes person if
person's income is high then he will buy
the insurance okay so person will buy
the insurance or not might depend not
only on age but on income and education
if the person is not educated at all and
doesn't have health awareness he or she
might not buy insurance so when you have
this
kind of data set where you have three
features which is age income education
then you might come up with this kind of
equation now this time by the way point
zero eight and point two I just came up
with this number out of thin air I did
not do any math here just putting some
numbers and generic way of representing
this equation is w 1 into X 1 W 2 into X
2 W 3 into X 3 so this numbers the
constant that you had Oh point zero
forty two point zero zero eight those
are called weights W 1 W 2 etcetera X 1
X 2 X 3 is nothing but the features the
features of your data set and B is some
constant number bias that you saw
already in linear equation in
mathematics generic way of representing
this equation is this so you are doing a
summation of I is equal to 0 to n the I
have n because I am showing three three
features here that could be five feature
there could be ten there could be
hundred features who knows generic way
to represent this is this summation of 0
to n W I into X I so it is w 1 X 1 W 2 X
2 W 3 X it all all plus B and that's
when you get your Y now if you want to
represent same equation in terms of
neural network you can present it like
this where you have the single neuron
which is your logistic function you have
the input parameters or the features
which is age income and education and
the way you represent them is X 1 X 2 X
3 then you have weights W 1 W 2 W 3
which is some number like some constant
numbers here and here as a first step
you will do W 1 into X 1 W 2 into X 2 W
3 into X 3 then you use activation
function which is nothing but a sigmoid
function that converts the number
between 0 and 1 and when Z is 0.5 or
more it is yes which is neuron is
activated it is less than 0.5 which
means
Iran is deactivated okay so I hope this
clears your understanding on neuron it
is actually simple you already know it
if you know logistic regression we will
be looking into more mathematics and
more theory behind a neural network but
in this tutorial I just wanted to
restrict it to a simple explanation of a
single neuron neural network.